---
layout: post
title: TILs in May 2019
description: A summarized list of my web development related TILs in May 2019
tags: [html, css, javascript, til]
comments: true
---

I've been learning a lot of awesome stuff related to web development. So I decided to summarize and document it for future references and to share the knowledge.

With tons of information floating around I've noticed that I forget some of the new stuff over time. Usually, I tweet about what I've learned with a **#TIL** tag, but later it's hard to find the information.

Writing a summarized blog post at the end of the month will help me to recap and refresh what I've learned.

So here's what I've learned in May 2019:

## Penultimate selector

There's a CSS selector that can select an element before the last one and it is called *penultimate*. 

```css
ul li:nth-last-child(2) {
  background: gold;
}
```

## JavaScript selector for html tag

There's a native [method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/documentElement){:target="blank"} in JavaScript to select a `<html>` tag. Convinient.

```javascript
document.documentElement
```

## Selecting via the `style` attribute

It is valid to select an element via `style` attribute in JavaScript. This one is very handy when working with 3rd party libraries, however not very secure, in a sense that the markup and attributes might change.

```javascript
document.querySelector("div[style='color:red;']")
```

## Responsive images and HTML `srcset` attribute

So responsive images are ...
<blockquote>
... images that work well on devices with widely differing screen sizes, resolutions, and other such features
<br />
&mdash;<cite><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images
" target="_blank">MDN</a></cite>
</blockquote>

This is a nice native way to optimize the webpage. The HTML `srcset` attribute allows to set multiple image sources and the browser will display the image depending on the viewport.

## A new `display` property

There's a CSS `display: flow-root` property that will fix the overflowing content issue when using *floats*. A nice article on that by the [alligator.io](https://alligator.io/css/no-more-clearfix-flow-root/){:target="blank"}




